Student Assistants 

Ateneo de Davao University offers financial assistance to students who are willing to work as office assistants. Student assistants work for four (4) hours a day, in return they receive tuition discount for the services they have rendered to the University. Applicants to the Student Assistance (SA) Program are interviewed and recommended by the different University offices needing student assistants. The Office of Student Affairs (OSA) facilitates the contract signing, monitors the academic performance and evaluates renewal of contracts. The Coordinator of the Scholarship Program interviews and recommends applicants to the Office of Student Affairs. Student assistants report to their direct supervisor, office head, Division Chair, Office Director or Coordinator. The offices, in return, give scholarship grant in the form of tuition credit based on the hours of service of the student assistants. The direct supervisor evaluates the student assistants at the end of every semester. Student assistants are allowed to do overtime work provided that this must be requested ahead of time and authorized by the Office Head. Overtime is only allowed for special or seasonal period and not on a regular basis. Forms for SA Overtime Request are available at the Student Affairs Office. This must be fully accomplished and approved by the Office Head and by the OSA Director. The approved request will be attached to the Daily Time Record (DTR) of SA that will be submitted to the Finance Office at the 3rd day of the month. DTRs with over four (4) hours per day of work shall have the approved overtime request form attached to it, otherwise, the Finance Office will implement only the four (4) hour per day maximum tuition credit. 

An Analysis of Student Assistance 

The study written by Kerry J. Redican, Chair Billie Lepczyk, Jeffery E. Aspelmeier and Jamie O. Little, “An Analysis of Student Assistance”, at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, instituted positive behaviors such as school attendance and reduction of disciplinary actions taken. In addition, this study assessed differences in demographic characteristics among student participants. Coordinators recorded that the majority of participants did improve since referral to program and most completed or currently remained in the student assistance program. This means that the grand performance of the students is improve, but we still need to keep track of the record to ensure the students’ disciplinary measures. To make the student’s academics performance increase and have a high level of quality education. 

Student Assistantship and Resource Training Program (START) 

De La Salle University of the Philippines extends financial assistance to needy but capable Filipino men and women desiring to continue education and training programs in both undergraduate and graduate levels. The objectives of the Student Assistantship Program is to provide financial assistance to students in need, assist students obtain practice/work skills and experience, assist students build inter-personal skills in the work environment. Working Conditions: STARTers may work with a minimum of five (5) hours per week to a maximum of twenty (20) hours per week; the schedule of work must be within Mondays to Saturdays, 0800 to 2000; STARTers who are asked to work on holidays will be paid holiday time. Benefits and Privileges: Employee discount at the bookstore, priority slot in the Student Loan Program, advance enrollment privilege (for undergraduate STARTers who render the maximum 20 hours a week), and Signing privileges in cafeteria/canteens, for settlement on pay dates. 
The relation of this studies to our proposed project, was to observe significant changes of students’ academic performance, attendance, and disciplinary measures. Not only that, this may also improve the Trust rate of the professors, and coordinators from the students. This study is to help students to push themselves in accomplishing/accommodating the time needed in doing their Student Assistant (S.A.) because many student having a hard time managing their time due to projects, time conflicts, etc. helping them to become more independent. 

References: 

http://www.addu.edu.ph/student-assistants/ https://theses.lib.vt.edu/theses/available/etd-05182006-065659/unrestricted/An_Analysis_of_Student_Assistance-old.pdf http://www.dlsu.edu.ph/scholarships/start/applying.asp